All right, before we get a little bit of
a public service announcement, more than
likely, if you're looking into this, you
have a computer background, IT
background, and you understand what
OpenClaw is because what it is is an
extreme security vulnerability and a
huge danger just waiting to be set off.
I suggest you not do it. But if you
must, well, be very careful. All right,
that's all I'm going to say. It's at
your own risk. Don't hold me responsible
if something catastrophic happens. The
beauty of OpenClaw is it is pretty
simple. I'm not taking away from the
genius that is Peter Steinberger, the
eventual sellout and sold his soul to
Sam Alman type guy that founded and
created Open Claw. But at the end of the
day, it's really just a rapper and a
bunch of plumbing or piping that's going
to go out to the intelligence your model
via an API typically or or you know
plugging in your API key and and
connecting it. Well, it's not really
anything that's like rocket science, for
example. And before he did kind of slit
his finger and dip his pen in that and
sign away his life and soul to open AI,
well, he at least open sourced it, which
means a lot of us could get the source
code and a lot of other developers are
now making branches and forks off of it
that are pretty incredible and doing
some really neat things. And one of
those projects is actually by a hardware
company by the name of Pico Claw. Now
Picoclaw in its own words is an ultra
lightweight personal AI assistant.
Memory usage under 10 MB. Starts in
under one second. Supports
multiarchchitectural deployment from $10
hardware to high performance servers. AI
is in reach. So now we're looking at
this 10 MB which is pretty incredible
which means we can start using single
board computers. And today I'm going to
walk through this. First, we're going to
intro it, but I'm going to put it on a
Raspberry Pi 2W and we're going to see
if we can get this running. Now, if we
scroll down below here, just how it
stacks up to the original OpenClaw and
then to some other forks. So, Open Claw
is going to use over 100 MB of memory.
Same thing with Nanobot. Now, Nanobot
was one of the first attempts to make a
fork that's going to make this code a
bit more efficient and smaller so that
it can run on, let's call it, lesser
than hardware than what OpenClaw
requires. Now, even though they did
that, they really didn't achieve, in my
opinion, too much. It made it a little
bit more efficient, but not a whole lot.
But along comes Pico Claw. Now, Pico
Claw, if you can see this, runs on less
than 10 MB memory. So, that's quite
amazing. and it opens it up to what I'm
going to be calling like edgeclaw, which
means we can use very small single board
computers with a Wi-Fi chip and be able
to put on things like in a Raspberry Pi
Pi's case, we can put on things like
hats, which means we can make it battery
powered. We can put solar because it has
GPIO pins. We can put sensors off it.
Has the ability to hook up a camera. Do
you see where I'm going with this? On
the edge, it does have a one-click
install. You're just going to go out.
You're going to make sure gets
installed. You're going to clone the
repository. It's going to make a
directory here called Picoclaw. And then
it's going to run this pico claw on
boarding. Now, I've already walked
through this and I did run into some
troubles, especially on the Raspberry
Pi. We'll get into that after we look at
the GitHub. Now, if we take a look at
the GitHub repository, it's going to
give you a lot more information. But I
think one of the cool things it says
here, and I think it's pretty cheeky, it
says run on $10 hardware with 10 MB RAM.
That's 99% less memory than OpenClaw and
98% cheaper than a Mac Mini. Now, they
are a hardware company, as I mentioned.
I don't know them. I'm not affiliated
with any of this. Uh, it is Scipede
and they have these little devices. This
one's 990. They have a couple other
ones, some with Wi-Fi. They also have
like KVM switch. Imagine like a KVM
switch with Open Claw on it, just to
give you an idea. So, you could go there
and get some of their hardware even for
$10. So, well, I love this because it's
now approachable. I'm all about making
devices and technology approachable. For
10 bucks, you're going to have, albeit a
lighter version, but you can still
experience OpenClaw by using Pico Claw.
The other thing that's really cool, and
I'm seeing a lot of people do this, is
you can put it on a phone. So, if you
have an old Android phone laying around,
for example, you're going to be able to
deploy it. So, take a look at it here if
you're interested in that. But, as I
mentioned, we're going to be putting it
putting this version on my personal
Pi02W and see if we can get it to work.
Now, this is where I ran into a little
bit of trouble earlier. I also tried to
find uh follow this uh install as well.
Um, but uh I'll tell you what I ended up
doing because it was a just a little bit
different than this. Uh, so we'll get
into that. But if you have a regular
Linux DRO, you're putting it on a PC or
whatever, it's not a Raspberry Pi, uh,
you can more than likely follow this or
that one-click install that we saw over
here. And it's not a one-click, it's
just a oneliner. Okay. Uh, so if we
scroll down here, it also has the
ability to include it in a Docker
container. Now, that's really important
because while this thing does sandbox
itself out of the gate by putting it
into its own folder system, there still
is some things that can happen. So,
maybe even further isolating it inside
of a Docker container might be a good
way to go. So, here's information on
that as well. If we scroll down here,
one of the things about this Pico
onboard, when I ran through it, I was
expecting more of like an onboarding
like we have with Open Claw where, you
know, it really is just walks you
through it. you cut and paste your API
keys and everything else. That wasn't my
experience. I actually had to go into
this file right here to edit it. And
when you edit this, you can go ahead and
you can select your models. Uh you can
set up like your Brave API search key if
you're looking to search the web. Highly
recommend using Brave API. It's like
2,000 calls a day and it's free. Now, it
does say it has all this integration
points here. Now, I will say really
quickly that I couldn't get anything to
work except Open Router. So, Anthropic I
I I take that back. back. I didn't try
anything other than OpenAI, U, Open
Router, and Miniax. And Miniax is not on
here, but they've recently announced the
support of it. And the only way I could
get anything to work was going through
Open Router. Now, Open Router is a
service that again, it's kind of like
Oama now where they have a cloud service
where you can then connect to other
models. So, through Open Router, I was
able to connect to Miniax, but directly
through Miniax, I wasn't I was not able
to get Open API running uh Open AI,
sorry. And Anthropic is just a risk
factor because if you don't know
Anthropic, the overlords over there are
super greedy and they're pretty much
cutting off one by one and even banning
people for using third-party
applications like this. I mean, I get
it. Look, this is an open- source
solution that's better than their
cowork. Uh, and they tried to sue the
creator multiple times. Uh, so yeah, I
won't you can look that up. So, it also
has chat integration. So, it still has
Telegram and Discord. in some other
versions. Remember, this is Chinese. So,
some of these might not be um like WCOM.
You might know not know what that is
unless you're Chinese, but I'm going to
be using Telegram in the future. So,
they also have their own social network
cloud chat. Similar thing to probably
trying to, you know, clout chase a
little bit for uh Maltbook. Uh we
mentioned this is where the
configuration file, again, if you're
going to be setting up stuff, you're
going to want to familiarize yourself
where this is. And inside of here,
you're going to see inside of the
workspace, it's going to create a folder
or a workspace and it's going to be
contained inside there. You're going to
see basically what makes this all work.
The big thing now is moving to MD files.
You put all your memories in there. I'm
not going to go in deep in depth about
that because this is Pico Claw. Um, and
if you're interested, just go ahead and
research. There's tons of people doing
stuff on this right now. Uh, but I
haven't seen anyone really talk about
Pico Claw yet. And and again, I'm
excited because yeah, I still have the
same familiarity, the same structure. Uh
but it's going to be on a small device
that I can power with a battery or slip
into my pocket. I mean, if we have it's
right here, actually, if we take a look
at this, um this is not actually not the
two. This is a one, but it's the same
footprint. Imagine this, right? So, this
goes in your pocket. You connect it to
your cell phone, you have a battery,
maybe you connect it in via USB. There's
also kits that you can make a USB stick
out of this. So you can put put it into
maybe a server that's not even online
and run against it. Kind of like using
that as a rag. So there this little
device can run it which is amazing. And
yeah, these are more expensive.
Raspberry Pi, don't get me started on
that. Uh but this this company here also
offers some hardware if you're
interested. And then you can look up.
But pretty much anything that runs
Linux, you're going to be able to run
this. So, uh, now that we've looked at
all this, let's go ahead and start
putting it on my Pi02W
and see what that process looks like.
All right, on my screen right now on the
right, I just have a terminal. I'm
connected via SSH into my Raspberry Pi.
On the left is just some notes for me.
But first and foremost, you need to make
sure you have two things installed. You
need to make sure you have get installed
and then lastly, go. If you don't have
those things installed, I'll have some
links down below as well as all these
other commands on the lefth hand side.
This is just my notepad so that I can
follow along as well. First thing we
need to do is issue this wget and copy
this first line. That's going to go out
and grab the repository for us. Now,
this is very important because this one
is exclusive to ARM 64. So, there is a
release uh link inside of the GitHub and
there you'll find any releases that
might be a little bit off. So, uh, if
you are using a Raspberry Pi, no, you
have to use this link. But if you're not
using a LA Raspberry Pi, you might have
to use another link. So, once we do that
and hit enter, that's going to go out
and pull that down. Now, the next
command we need to uh enter is right
here. We're just tar, which means we are
going to unpack and unarchive it. Once
we do that, you'll see here it says
license readme, read me, read me, and
pico claw. So, I don't know if you
really need to do this. I just changed
some of the security here to make sure
it would work and I don't want to change
it back because I know this process
works. So go ahead and chod and issue
that command as well. Now here's where
it comes something interesting. We're
ready to issue some commands. We can do
this right here. It's actually slashpico
claw. So if I do that and hit enter,
what it's going to do is configure
already exists. So I already have
something already written there. Um, so
I am going to say actually that's
interesting I have it written there. It
saved it. I thought I deleted that. But
yeah, let's go ahead and overwrite that.
Hit yes. And this will give me kind of
like a new install there. So once you're
here, it says next steps. Add your API
key. And it gives you a link to where
it's at or at least a directory as to
where it's at. And then it says go ahead
and set up all your API keys. So unlike
that of Claudebot uh or open claw if you
will, it's not going to lead you through
it. So we are going to have to go in and
uh execute this command in order to get
it to work. Now in terms of the JSON,
this is what I have working right now.
And I'll pull it up here on the
Raspberry Pi as well, but this is what
it will look like in text format. So the
main things you want to notice here is
I'm using the Miniax model. And as I
mentioned, I could only get the open
router to work. So, you'll have to go to
open router and then go there and sign
up, you know, put in some money and then
pick what model you want to use. And
right here is where you'll put in the
base, which is this what you see right
here if you're using Open Router. And
then your API key, which you'll get from
Open Router. And then that'll connect to
whatever model you're using. and make
sure that model that you've selected to
connect is up here. So, let me show you
what it's going to look like initially.
So, if we go here and go pseudo where
let's see where it is pseudo nano and
it's in my home directory
JSON file here. Open it up and yeah, we
can see it's the same thing here. So,
here's where I would come in and say
model and drop this in for Miniax Miniax
2 and go uh down. It also gives you the
ability down below here to set up
Telegram if you want. Um, I'm not going
to walk you through that part. It's
pretty simple either way if you prefer
to message this thing through Telegram
versus something like SSH, which I'll
probably do, but I want to keep this
short and you've probably seen how to do
that. If not, it's in the documentation
will be linked down below. And then if
you scroll down to the bottom here, this
again is where you'd put in your API
keys. I tried OpenAI, couldn't get it to
work, but Open Router again, you would
put in your API key here and the API
base there. So, I'm going to go ahead
and upload my version really quickly and
then I'll be right back. All right, now
I've got my configuration file all saved
and it's ready to go. We need to issue
the command. So, right here is the
command. It is just/picclaw
agent. Now, I already have this running.
If you haven't had this running before,
it will take a minute to get to this
point. But if everything goes well, you
will see this. It will say you and this
is where we can start interacting with
our model. It should be connected. If
you don't see this, this is when you're
going to start wanting to troubleshoot
that configuration file. So, first thing
I'm going to say is hello. And it'll
probably say something like hello again
or something like that. So, it says hey.
All right. So, it said still testing or
you need something else. Yeah. Well, we
need something else. So, I don't have a
whole bunch hooked up to this, but I
just want to show you really quickly
what we can do. So, I'm going to say,
can you build a web page
that says hello everyone on it with a
big Oh, sorry. Let me go back. With a
big heart on it as well. Let's see what
it does there. So, it's going to go out,
ping the model, and start building. And
hopefully we get a response. So, want me
to save it to file? There it is. So, it
looks like it went out and created a web
page for us. So, pretty cool. And even
tried to do this. I don't know if that
would be render or not, but it looks
like it tried to make it that way. But,
nonetheless, it's just a quick way to
prove that this thing works. So, now
let's just ask it something off the
wall. So, let's say um are wolves dogs,
for example. And I want to see what it
does for just like conversation
conversating with it. Now again, this is
um yeah, so it came back. It says
they're closely rated related and can
enter breed, but they're not considered.
Key differences. Wolves are harder to
tame. Dogs have evolved to digest
starch. Interesting. I didn't know that.
So maybe wolves still can't digest star
uh starch very well. So different social
behaviors, but nonetheless, you can see
here it is absolutely working. That is
pretty cool. I mean, something as small
as this, right? something as small as
this. Now, uh we can have a version of
Open Claw on it. Pretty sick if you ask
me. So, during this demo, I've actually
had the Pi02W on this. This is just the
Raspberry Pi or Hackberry Pi Zero, I
believe. They make another model if that
has a CM5 on it. I point over there
because it's over there. So, I have two
of them. It's really cool. Has a
physical keyboard. independent guy who
did this and um has the old school
Blackberry like kind of trackpad on it.
So pretty cool especially if you're old
school like me to have it tactile but
this gives me the ability to bring it
mobile and I think that's one of the
strong suits that I'm looking at as I
mentioned kind of putting this on the
edge and using maybe those GPIO pins. So
it absolutely works. I'll test it out a
little bit more. I don't expect anything
too crazy out of it. I have noticed it's
a little bit slower for sure, as is to
be expected, but it's just as acting as
this pass through to the model and I
think it's pretty incredible. So, I'll
let you guys just kind of marinate on
that in terms of what you can do. So,
don't inspect the world from it. It's a
little quirky. I had to work with it for
really quite a few hours to get it to
the point where I could write down these
instructions and at least figure it out
for the Raspberry Pi. So, if you are
interested, again, it's down below. And
if you are not subscribed, please
consider subscribing. It helps me out a
ton. And also, please like this video so
we can get it out to others. But this is
crazy, man. Looks like OpenClaw has a
little brother or sister or whatever you
want to call it. A little micro
crustation called Pico Claw. Let's go.
My name's El Phantom. I'll see you next
time.